Initial version of logging Feature Request (#206)
eclipse-score/score: docs/features/analysis-infra/logging/docs/requirements/mw-fr_logging_req.rst

> ..

Reviewer: There should be a glossary OR Definitions section. E.g. 
Framework - A structured and extensible foundation for developing specific types of functionality in this case, logging. It supplies a set of default behaviors and configurable options, allowing developers to tailor and extend its capabilities to meet their application and system need.

   # *******************************************************************************
   # Copyright (c) 2025 Contributors to the Eclipse Foundation
   #
   # See the NOTICE file(s) distributed with this work for additional
   # information regarding copyright ownership.
   #
   # This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
   # terms of the Apache License Version 2.0 which is available at
   # https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
   #
   # SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
   # *******************************************************************************

> Requirements

Reviewer: Duplicates for those exist and can be excluded from this list:

- The logging framework shall support logging of data to memory which survives a reboot cycle.
- The logging framework shall support component features and platform as log sources.
- The logging framework shall support log severity levels to categorize logs based on their importance.

Author: where?

Author: Write 2 req.
1. logging shall support different severity levels (e.g....)
2. logging shall support reporting of severity levels based on config.

Reviewer: edited the comment to be precise

############

.. .. gd_temp:: Feature Requirements Templates
..    :id: gd_temp__log_req_feat_req
..    :status: valid
..    :complies: std_wp__iso26262__software_651, std_req__iso26262__support_641, std_req__iso26262__support_6421, std_req__iso26262__support_6425

..    .. code-block:: rst

.. feat_req:: Timestamping - Local Timestamp
   :id: feat_req__logging__timestamping_local
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall support local timestamps for each log entry.

.. feat_req:: Timestamping - Original Timestamp
   :id: feat_req__logging__timestamping_original
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall support original timestamps for routed log entries.

.. feat_req:: Timestamping - Timestamp Synchronization
   :id: feat_req__logging__timestamping_sync
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

>    The logging framework shall support timestamp synchronization for log entries coming from different logging nodes.

Author: done

.. feat_req:: Log Severity Levels
   :id: feat_req__logging__severity_levels
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

>    The logging framework shall support log severity levels to categorize logs based on their importance.

Reviewer 2: The Req information of type `to categorize logs based on their importance` can also be part of a separate attribute e.g., `Rationale` / `Reason` / `Motivation`, in order to explain separately and in details why a requirement is needed, possibly for multiple reasons.

.. feat_req:: Log Prioritization
   :id: feat_req__logging__prioritization
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall prioritize logs in case of resource conflicts to ensure critical logs are not lost.

.. feat_req:: Logging of Early Startup Events
   :id: feat_req__logging__early_startup
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall support logging of early startup events to capture critical initialization information.

.. feat_req:: Log Filtering - Application and Context Identifier
   :id: feat_req__logging__filtering_app_context
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

>    The logging framework shall support filtering by application and context identifiers, similar to DLT.

Reviewer: DLT in Glossary for non-automotive devs

Reviewer 2: This Requirement should be split e.g.,
1. The logging framework shall support logging entity identifiers for each log entry.
2. The logging framework shall support filtering by logging entity identifiers.

and in Glossary
- logging entity = SW entity which generates log messages
- logging entity identifier = unique identifier for the logging entity, e.g., ECU ID / application ID / context ID, similar to DLT

Author: changed to "The logging framework shall support logging entity identifiers for each log entry."
 "Log Filtering - Logging Entity ID" == The logging framework shall support filtering by logging entity identifiers.

.. feat_req:: Log Filtering - Log Levels
   :id: feat_req__logging__filtering_log_levels
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall support filtering by log levels (e.g., FATAL, ERROR, WARN, INFO, DEBUG, VERBOSE such as in DLT).

.. feat_req:: Log Filtering - Logging Entity ID
   :id: feat_req__logging__filtering_entity_id
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

>    The logging framework shall support filtering logs by logging entity IDs (e.g., ECU ID, Application ID, Context ID such as in DLT).

Reviewer 2: duplicate of `feat_req__logging__filtering_app_context`

Author: done

.. feat_req:: Message Loss Detection - Detection and Reporting
   :id: feat_req__logging__message_loss_detection
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall detect and report any message loss.

.. feat_req:: Message Loss Detection - Graceful Handling
   :id: feat_req__logging__message_loss_handling
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

>    The logging framework shall provide mechanisms to handle message loss gracefully, such as buffering or prioritizing critical messages.

Reviewer 2: `such as buffering or prioritizing critical messages` can be part of glossary or of another Req attribute e.g., `Additional Information`

Author: done

.. feat_req:: Context-Specific Log Level Activation
   :id: feat_req__logging__context_log_level
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

>    The logging framework shall allow context-specific log level activation at runtime to enable fine-grained control over logging behavior.

Reviewer 2: What is `context-specific` more exactly?

Author: has to be discussed

.. feat_req:: Log Sources - User Application
   :id: feat_req__logging__log_sources_user_app
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall support user applications as log sources.

.. feat_req:: Log Sources - Component and Platform
   :id: feat_req__logging__log_sources
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

>    The logging framework shall support component features and platform as log sources.

Reviewer 2: What `component features and platform` means? Where are they defined?

.. feat_req:: Log Sinks - Console
   :id: feat_req__logging__log_sinks_console
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

>    The logging framework shall support console as a log sink.

Reviewer 2: Where is defined `log sink`?

>    The logging framework shall support console as a log sink.

Author: - I think console is redundant with stdout in this case
- Sinks are defined by all req. with Log Sinks - ....

.. feat_req:: Log Sinks - Local File System
   :id: feat_req__logging__log_sinks_local_fs
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

>    The logging framework shall support local file systems as log sinks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The logging framework shall support local file system as log sink.
```

Reviewer 2: `log sink` has to be defined

Author: - Sinks are defined by all req. with Log Sinks - ....
-done

.. feat_req:: Log Sinks - External Mounted PCIe Drive
   :id: feat_req__logging__log_sinks_pcie_drive
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

>    The logging framework shall support external mounted PCIe drives as log sinks.

Author: covered by logging to file system. Req will be deleted

>    The logging framework shall support external mounted PCIe drives as log sinks.

Author: deleted

.. feat_req:: Log Sinks - Cloud Native Drive
   :id: feat_req__logging__log_sinks_cloud_drive
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall support cloud-native drives via network as log sinks.

.. feat_req:: Log Sinks - Network
   :id: feat_req__logging__log_sinks_network
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall support network channels, including a second dedicated Ethernet channel, as log sinks.

.. feat_req:: Log Sinks - Stdout for Unit Tests
   :id: feat_req__logging__log_sinks_stdout
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

>    The logging framework shall ensure logs appear on stdout when running unit tests.

Reviewer 2: Why not in a file?

.. feat_req:: Previous boot logging
   :id: feat_req__logging__boot_logging
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__boot_logging
   :status: valid

>    The logging framework shall support logging of data to memory which survives a reboot

Reviewer: not sure if this makes sense for a logging framework. 
A logging framework already supports local file systems as log sinks when provided a path. So it would be the responsibility of the application to ensure the path is persistent and its mounted as such and available for r+w.

   cycle.

.. feat_req:: Configuration - Log Level
   :id: feat_req__logging__config_log_level
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

>    The logging framework shall allow configuration of log levels.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The logging framework shall support configuration of log levels.
```

Author: done

.. feat_req:: Log Sinks - Storage Device
   :id: feat_req__logging__sink_device
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

>    The logging framework shall support configurable log storage devices for storing log data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The logging framework shall support configuration of the log storage device.
```

Reviewer 2: Additional Req would be needed:
`The logging framework shall support multiple log storage devices.`

Author: done

.. feat_req:: Log Sinks - Storage Strategy
   :id: feat_req__logging__sink_strategy
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

>    The logging framework shall support configurable log storage strategies(e.g., on system shutdown, on each message, on demand, on file size, on cache size, with circular or linear buffer).

Reviewer 2: Examples should not be part of the Requirement text (in order to avoid over-specification and also to remain simple and generic enough), but it should be part of the Glossary, e.g.,
- Req: The logging framework shall support configurable log storage strategy.
- and in Glossary:  log storage strategy = strategy to write/sync the cached log messages in the log storage location e.g., on system shutdown, on each message, on demand, on file size, on cache size, with circular or linear buffer

Author: done

.. feat_req:: Configuration - Buffer Size
   :id: feat_req__logging__config_buffer_size
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

>    The logging framework shall allow configuration of buffer size.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The logging framework shall allow configuration of internal buffers sizes.
```

Author: done

.. feat_req:: Configuration - Storage Size
   :id: feat_req__logging__config_storage_size
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

>    The logging framework shall allow configuration of storage size for log files.

Reviewer 2: `storage size for log files` per file or total size?
- Requirement should be atomic

Author: done

   :id: feat_req__logging__config_custom_types
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall allow extensions for custom log types.

.. feat_req:: Error Handling - Recoverable Errors
   :id: feat_req__logging__error_handling_recoverable
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall continue operation in case of recoverable errors.

.. feat_req:: Error Handling - Non-Recoverable Errors
   :id: feat_req__log__err_handling_nonrec
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall deactivate silently and set an error state reported on shutdown in case of non-recoverable errors.

.. feat_req:: Error Handling - Application Isolation
   :id: feat_req__logging__error_handling_isolation
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

>    The logging framework shall ensure that user applications are not affected by logging framework errors.

Reviewer: All these below requirements should be categorized as non-functional requirements. Again subdivided into:
Platform, security and safety requirements.

.. feat_req:: Compatibility - Supported Operating Systems
   :id: feat_req__logging__compat_os
   :reqtype: Interface
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

>    The logging framework shall support QNX and Linux operating systems (encapsulated via OSAL).

Reviewer 2: Where the `OSAL` responsibility is defined ?

Author: We need to discuss this point. Two solutions are possible.
1. logging specific OSAL parts belongs to Logging. => We have to define the logging internal interface to the OSAL component in logging.
2. OSAL is a component in context of the logging feature. => We need an allignment with the responsible for OSAL.

Reviewer 3: The OSAL implementation for C++ is available at https://github.com/eclipse-score/baselibs/tree/main/score/os It's a dependency for `mw::log` and `mw::com`
AFAIK there is currently no clear consensus within the S-CORE Architecture Community regarding the future direction of OSAL and the specific content it should include.

.. feat_req:: Resource Consumption - Storage
   :id: feat_req__logging__resource_storage
   :reqtype: Non-Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall minimize storage resource consumption.

.. feat_req:: Resource Consumption - Communication Channel
   :id: feat_req__logging__resource_comm_channel
   :reqtype: Non-Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall minimize communication channel resource consumption.

.. feat_req:: Resource Consumption - Runtime Resources
   :id: feat_req__logging__resource_runtime
   :reqtype: Non-Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall minimize runtime resource consumption.

.. feat_req:: Resource Consumption - Performance Impact
   :id: feat_req__logging__resource_performance
   :reqtype: Non-Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

>    The logging framework shall have low impact on overall system performance and provide QoS for handling overflows or dropping log messages.

Reviewer 2: split needed for atomic Reqs

Author: done

.. ist "rovide QoS for handling overflows or dropping log messages." doppelt zu den loos detection req.?

.. feat_req:: Compatibility - DLT Protocol
   :id: feat_req__logging__compat_dlt
   :reqtype: Interface
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

>    The logging framework shall be compatible with the Diagnostic Log and Trace (DLT) protocol, including support for DLT message format, sending and receiving DLT messages, and integration with existing DLT tools and infrastructure.

Reviewer 2: `DLT` can be added in some `Abbreviations` section and what `DLT compatible` means can be part of a separate Req attribute e.g., `Additional Info` = `support for DLT message format, sending and receiving DLT messages, and integration with existing DLT tools, infrastructure...`

Author: done

>    The logging framework shall be compatible with the Diagnostic Log and Trace (DLT) protocol, including support for DLT message format, sending and receiving DLT messages, and integration with existing DLT tools and infrastructure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The logging framework shall be DLT compatible.
```

Author: done

..    .. code-block:: rst

.. feat_req:: Timestamping - Local Timestamp
   :id: feat_req__logging__timestamping_local
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall support local timestamps for each log entry.

.. feat_req:: Timestamping - Original Timestamp
   :id: feat_req__logging__timestamping_original
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall support original timestamps for routed log entries.

.. feat_req:: Timestamping - Timestamp Synchronization
   :id: feat_req__logging__timestamping_sync
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall support timestamp synchronization for log entries coming from different logging nodes.

.. feat_req:: Log Severity Levels
   :id: feat_req__logging__severity_levels
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

>    The logging framework shall support log severity levels to categorize logs based on their importance.

Reviewer 2: where `log level` for is defined in glossary, with examples

>    The logging framework shall support log severity levels to categorize logs based on their importance.

Author: done

.. feat_req:: Log Prioritization
   :id: feat_req__logging__prioritization
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall prioritize logs in case of resource conflicts to ensure critical logs are not lost.

.. feat_req:: Logging of Early Startup Events
   :id: feat_req__logging__early_startup
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

>    The logging framework shall support logging of early startup events to capture critical initialization information.

Reviewer 2: Is that indeed a Logging Req, or more a Tracing Req (i.e. be able to capture early startup events and forward/route them as log messages) ?

Author: I think it is part of the complete logging. But I'm not sure whether the responsibility for this lies with a logging component outside the S-Core scope.

.. feat_req:: Log entity Identifier
   :id: feat_req__logging__entity_identifier
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall support logging entity identifiers for each log entry.

.. feat_req:: Log Filtering - Log Levels
   :id: feat_req__logging__filtering_log_levels
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

>    The logging framework shall support filtering by log levels (e.g., FATAL, ERROR, WARN, INFO, DEBUG, VERBOSE such as in DLT).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The logging framework shall support filtering by log levels.
```

Author: done

   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall detect and report any message loss.

.. feat_req:: Message Loss Detection - Graceful Handling
   :id: feat_req__logging__message_loss_handling
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall provide mechanisms to handle message loss gracefully.

   Additional Information: e.g. buffering or prioritizing critical messages

.. feat_req:: Context-Specific Log Level Activation
   :id: feat_req__logging__context_log_level
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall allow context-specific log level activation at runtime to enable fine-grained control over logging behavior.

.. feat_req:: Log Sources - User Application
   :id: feat_req__logging__log_sources_user_app
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

>    The logging framework shall support user applications as log sources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The logging framework shall support user application as log source.
```

Author: done

.. feat_req:: Configuration - Permission Settings
   :id: feat_req__logging__config_permissions
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: YES
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall allow configuration of permission settings for log access.

.. feat_req:: Configuration - Log Filter
   :id: feat_req__logging__config_log_filter
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall allow configuration of log filters.

.. feat_req:: Configuration - Logging Entity ID
   :id: feat_req__logging__config_entity_id
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall allow configuration of logging entity IDs.

.. feat_req:: Configuration - On-Demand Functionality
   :id: feat_req__logging__config_on_demand
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

>    The logging framework shall support on-demand functionality, such as enabling or disabling log storage.

Reviewer 2: better to have one Req per supported `on-demand` functionality

.. feat_req:: Configuration - Fallback Configurations
   :id: feat_req__logging__config_fallback
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall provide fallback configurations, such as application-wide or system-wide defaults.

.. feat_req:: Configuration - Custom Types Extension
   :id: feat_req__logging__config_custom_types
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall allow extensions for custom log types.

.. feat_req:: Error Handling - Recoverable Errors
   :id: feat_req__logging__error_handling_recoverable
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

>    The logging framework shall continue operation in case of recoverable errors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   In case of recoverable error, the logging framework shall continue the current operations.
```

.. feat_req:: Error Handling - Non-Recoverable Errors
   :id: feat_req__log__err_handling_nonrec
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

>    The logging framework shall deactivate silently and set an error state reported on shutdown in case of non-recoverable errors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   In case of non-recoverable error, the logging framework shall deactivate silently and set an error state reported on shutdown.
```

Author: done

.. feat_req:: Error Handling - Application Isolation
   :id: feat_req__logging__error_handling_isolation
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall ensure that user applications are not affected by logging framework errors.

.. feat_req:: Compatibility - Supported Operating Systems
   :id: feat_req__logging__compat_os
   :reqtype: Interface
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall support QNX and Linux operating systems (encapsulated via OSAL).

.. feat_req:: Compatibility - Supported Programming Languages
   :id: feat_req__logging__compat_languages
   :reqtype: Interface
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM

>    :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support

Reviewer 3: This also fits to `stkh_req__dev_experience__prog_languages`
```suggestion
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support, stkh_req__dev_experience__prog_languages
```

.. feat_req:: Resource Consumption - Storage
   :id: feat_req__logging__resource_storage
   :reqtype: Non-Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall minimize storage resource consumption.

.. feat_req:: Resource Consumption - Communication Channel
   :id: feat_req__logging__resource_comm_channel
   :reqtype: Non-Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall minimize communication channel resource consumption.

.. feat_req:: Resource Consumption - Runtime Resources
   :id: feat_req__logging__resource_runtime
   :reqtype: Non-Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

   The logging framework shall minimize runtime resource consumption.

.. feat_req:: Resource Consumption - Performance Impact
   :id: feat_req__logging__resource_performance
   :reqtype: Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

>    The logging framework shall have low impact on overall system performance.

Reviewer 2: maybe `low impact` should be somehow / somewhere defined

.. feat_req:: Quality of Service - Message Handling
   :id: feat_req__logging__qos_message_handling
   :reqtype: Non-Functional
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support
   :status: valid

>    The logging framework shall provide QoS for handling overflows or dropping log messages.

Author: add to glossary

.. ist "rovide QoS for handling overflows or dropping log messages." doppelt zu den loos detection req.?

.. feat_req:: Compatibility - DLT Protocol
   :id: feat_req__logging__compat_dlt
   :reqtype: Interface
   :security: NO
   :safety: QM

>    :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support, stkh_req__overall_goals__enable_cooperation
```

   :status: valid

>    The logging framework shall be DLT (Diagnostic Log and Trace) compatible.

Reviewer 2: DLT which is used several times should be just part of Abbreviations / Glossary

>    The logging framework shall be DLT (Diagnostic Log and Trace) compatible.

Author: done

   Additional Information: support for DLT message format, sending and receiving DLT messages, and integration with existing DLT tools and infrastructure.

.. feat_req:: Security - Log File Access
   :id: feat_req__logging__security_log_access
   :reqtype: Non-Functional
   :security: YES
   :safety: QM

>    :satisfies: stkh_req__dev_experience__logging_support

Author: I add the req due to Mandatory access control
